[MUSIC]
>> Jon Kuperman: Now
the scariest of the panels but
we're gonna get through it together.
And it's gonna be awesome.
The timeline panel.
So the Timeline panel,
I think I have a Lord of the Rings ring,
is like becoming the one
panel to rule them all.
As it were,
has got way too much stuff on it but
it's really really useful information.
So imma pop this back into full screen,
so we can see it all and
basically you can control
what it captures.
We're gonna to start off
by capturing everything and
then we gonna kind of
narrow it down from there.
So it can do network just
like the network tab.
A JavaScript profile, they can do those
screenshots as we load just like we saw
before they can copy, capture all
the memory and all the screen paints.
And I'm gonna go ahead imma hit refresh
on here which will start the recording.
With the timeline, it's actually
true with almost all the panels,
when you're on the panel a refresh will
trigger it to start it's recording.
You can also using command you're clicking
on it, you can manually start and stop or
recording and what that's important for
is a refresh is gonna be profiling
your page load your initial load.
But sometimes you wanna profile how your
app works like somewhere in the flow
after the page loads to
a single page application.
And you're worried about like
the checkout screen feeling slow.
You don't need to start from page load,
you can just hit record check out hit
record stop and profile it that way.
But for now, we're just going to be
profiling the whole page load because this
is a pretty simple site.
Okay, so [COUGH]
go to timeline, I don't know how I got off
here but multiple my gosh,
I have multiple death tool windows open.
Okay, there we go back to has just one.
Okay, so this is the screen and
there's a ton of stuff going on, so
let's start off with what we can eliminate
and make it smaller just for a minute.
Okay, so [COUGH] the first thing that we
can probably eliminate is the screenshots,
we already saw these down here
on the network conditions.
And I know that I'm not worried
about how the paint performs.
What you would wanna watch out for here is
like I said before if maybe unimportant
stuff like an image was loading before
important stuff like a tagline or
some communication.
Screenshots are really useful for that,
but since I can see that my whole page
loads right away in the first screenshot,
I don't need those anymore.
So I'm gonna deselect to
kinda tidy up a little bit.
The next thing then
we'll look at is memory.
We're gonna get in the memory
in the next section but
the thing you wanna watch out for
a memory is like the jigsaw pattern.
So it's like memory going up is totally
fine cuz you need memory to do basically
everything, but what you wanna look for is
every once in a while garbage collection
kicks in and
the memory should go back down.
Preferably back down
to a pretty low point,
if you see your memory like jigsawing so
up into the left.
That's the bad sign because that means
the flat is the garbage collection which
should go back down.
So we'll see it soon but the pattern
that you always wanna watch out for
is like the up and to the left memory
provides, so we can see and hear is very,
very flat, right?
Like the page loads and
it probably allocate some memory a garbage
collection kicks in and it doesn't go back
down to zero because we have stuff in
memory still but it stays really flat.
Whereas, if you are seeing like [SOUND]
that kind of pattern, you'd have a memory
leak, and that's thing you wanna
diagnose there, that's our next section.
So we can see there's not
a memory leak on this page, so
I'm gonna go ahead and
not look at that right now.
I did wanna point out that their color
coordinated by the type of what the memory
is being used for, which is really
gonna be helpful on our next section.
Whether it's like DOM nodes or elements or
JavaScript or event listeners all like us,
so it's gonna hide memory.
Okay, so now,
we're just down to three things.
We're down to the summary down here.
We're down to the networks,
which is basically the waterfall
that we saw before, and
then we're down to the screen paint area.
So the network is really useful like
if you have a website that slow and
you're looking at the timeline and you're
seeing that like let's say, you're seeing.
So these little red blips here are when
when Chrome suspects what's called
page jank which we're gonna get into
in a bit which is like a jankness like
not silky smooth page.
So if you're seeing a lot of page jank and
you're not seeing anything here, so these
are again color coordinated like loading
JavaScript we'll get into that a second.
So if you're not seeing any stuff here,
but you're seeing jank up here,
it's probably a good idea to
look into the network resources.
Like, for example,
you have one huge image.
You might see no work being done, so
none of these little pyramids but
a whole lot of pages like
the images loading in.
But for this one, the areas that we
do see a little bit of page jank,
we also see a lot of work going on, so
networking is probably not our issue.
The controls are a little bit weird on
the timeline too so if you scroll down it,
zooms in and you can kind of see
these two pictures here zooming in.
And you can zoom in an area and
if you scroll side to side,
if you have a trackpad it moves
it through time the X axis.
But then when you get to something
like here and you wanna scroll down,
if you try to scroll down it won't, right?
It will just zoom back out and
in when you try to zoom down and up, so
just remember the timeline kind
of takes over the scrolling.
And if you want normal scrolling,
you have to hold Shift, and
if you hold Shift you'll be able to
scroll up and down, like normal.
So again, the Network tab is
useful in a sense because it can
show us things that take a long time.
And the really only thing that's taking a
long time is these icon fonts to load and
those icon fonts are just what I'm
using for these little things here.
So if we wanted an immediate
awesome performance win and
we're okay with not having those icons we
could just get rid of this whole thing.
This is like the Bootstrap cliff icons,
we could also very easily trim
the CSS down to just the five or
six that I'm using as opposed to
like 32 that come with Bootstrap.
But there's nothing really like
what you'd wanna watch out for
on the Network tab is like some really
wide stuff especially these are okay
cuz they load at the end you can see.
But if it was like something that was like
blocking in the middle like the document
comes down and then this huge image
where no work is getting done.
And then JavaScript like that's the kind
of stuff you wanna watch out for
on the Network tab and
we'll see some examples of that in a bit.
But I'm not concerned with this,
does that kinda makes sense?
Cuz I'm not seeing any red
flags with this Network tab, so
I'm wanna go ahead and hide it for now.
Okay, so now we're just left
with still a lot of stuff.
So as far as the colors for
all the rest of the panels they're
dictated by this key here.
So loading is blue, scripting is yellow,
rendering is purple,
painting is green, and
then everything else.
And other and idle are just like GPU or
CPU, it has like stuff to do, right?
There's like actual native
code that it's running,
there's actually like
browser cleanup happening.
So that's like not your app code, so you
kind of get an idea just from looking like
okay, like I'm seeing a lot of purple and
yellow that's what's going on here.
So there's like a a big rendering block
at the beginning which makes sense.
You got to run to the page and then
there's like this big scripting block that
basically continues for
most of the rest of the time.
So you can just like,
by knowing the colors,
you can start to just get an idea of like,
well, is my app doing?
Is it like a ton of loading,
a ton of JavaScript, a ton of memory,
all that kind of stuff.
And this summary is just like
a nice little pie chart of like,
it looks like I spent most
of my time scripting.
Okay, so I know there's a lot here.
Let's start kinda taking a look up here,
so that this, even though it's just one
column, there's actually three sections
which you can see on the right side.
So there's again a little
mini Network tab,
which you can see a little mini waterfall.
Let me make this bigger.
You can see there's a little
mini waterfall over here but
we've kind of looked we've kind of
done the network thing already.
Then there's CPU usage which is what the
summary is like what we're spending our
time doing.
So we can see that rendering JavaScript
are taking a lot of the time and
then there's the third section
which is frames per second.
So I think I've got in here,
I'm gonna move forward just for a second.
Okay, so frames per second is
a really crucial concept and
it's a little bit confusing.
So a lot of talks will speak about 60
frames per second as being silky smooth.
Video games should be
60 frames per second.
Website should scroll at
So I think before we do too much, it's
important or say where that comes from.
So basic idea is that most screens
refresh 60 times in a second.
And so if you think about like
you're you've got your website and
your screen is refreshing 60 times so
whatever 60 times in a second.
You need to have something,
a frame ready to give it.
The browser needs to be able to give
the screen a frame every one of those
times a second.
So basically,
you have a little less time than that so
60 frames in a second means that you need
to have a frame every 16 milliseconds.
And this isn't something that
you control necessarily.
It's something that you can
overwhelm the browser, and
it will start failing to be able to do.
Does that make sense like you don't
actually control when you give a frame to
the browser, but if you ask it to
do too many things it might fumble,
it might not be able to
deliver a new frame.
The tricky thing is you don't
really get the full 16 milliseconds
because the browser has a bunch
of just stuff that it has
to do like just what browsers are
complicated and there is work to be done.
So really like your work needs to be
completed within 10 milliseconds for
each frame that you need to run there.
And when you don't have a frame ready is
when you start, if you've ever seen that
an animation on a website and
it's like really, really choppy.
It's because it's not going fast enough,
it doesn't have a new frame to show
the browser every ten milliseconds or so.
The individual numbers
aren't very important.
What's important is that back on this
view over here as the green goes up
that's when we're getting into the kind
of the dangerous territory, right?
Like the higher that the this
like the screen goes
the like the less frames per
second we're able to give.
So it's kind of like you know high
is low high is bad basically.
So this looks okay, because the thing
is rendering is unavoidable, right?
If you have a whole website to paint and
there's a bunch of content and
pictures and stuff like that,
there's a lot of rendering work.
There's a lot of painting
work that needs to be done.
But what you wanna watch out for
Is just unnecessary paints and
we're gonna get to some examples
of that but like so for example,
seeing a big bump of green as the page
loads is always gonna be the case.
You always need that but
if you're running like a timeline and
you saw a big bump a green here and
then you saw like huge spikes in green
like all throughout like afterwards.
That might be something to worry about,
why are we repainting?
Sorry, so
we're gonna dive into this stuff a lot
because I know it's really complicated,
there's a lot going on but my whole point
is just like starting to understand.
Just being able to eyeball
these sections and
seeing like what information
it's giving you.
So like a dark red means
that it suspects page jank.
It suspects a frame was too slow.
And then the green over here will spike
as you're doing a lot of painting as like
the frames per second is getting lower.
Then this next section is just like this
like pyramid a thing of like what is
the CPU doing?
Is it doing a lot of rendering?
Is it doing a lot of JavaScript work?
Then this is a little Network tab just
the same kind of waterfall that we've
been seeing.
And then this is like a pie chart which
just shows you all that information kind
of broken up into what
you spent time doing